doc: update with recommended integration into package.json (#281)
nodejs/package-maintenance: docs/drafts/PACKAGE-SUPPORT.md

consumer and those of the maintainer and reduce the friction and stress
that can arise due to the gap.

There are 2 different aspects documented by this practice:

* Integration into packages
* Format and structure of the information 

The sections which follow will address each of these separately.

# Integration into packages

> The recommendation is a result of significant discussion due to the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This recommendation is designed to meet the following
```

How it came to be is ultimately not interesting to readers of this type of document (not a blog post). That's not to diminish the hard work y'all did! Let the result speak for itself.

conflicting requirements:
* ability to review and process the support information

>   off-line with access to only the package itself.

Reviewer 2: can we remove the hard-wrapping throughout the doc? it's easier to review and suggest when arbitrary newlines aren't inserted all over the place :-)

Reviewer 2: @johnmuhl why the thumbs down?

Reviewer 3: This is a subjective thing, which I am guessing causes the thumbs down.  Depending on your editor and configuration, these newlines can make this document legible where otherwise it would not be.  In this particular line it might not matter, but I know sometimes when I have vim open on a wide screen, a long single line paragraph is painful to read.  Just my 2c.

Reviewer 2: Sure, but the GitHub UI always wraps by default, and suggestions are single line, and vim/editors can easily be configured to soft wrap if desired.

>   off-line with access to only the package itself.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  offline with access to only the package itself.
```

* ability to update the support information without having to publish the module
* ability to get the most up to date version of the support info without
  having to pull down the latest published version of a package.

> The integration suggested by this best practice aims to maximize the likelyhood that

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The integration suggested by this best practice aims to maximize the likelihood that
```

offline information is available and accurate while at the same time not tying
the canonical version of the support information with a published version of the
package.

## Integration into package.json

A new field called `support` is added to package.json. The contents of this field will 
be one of the following:
* true: This will indicate that the canonical version of the support information for the
  package is available in a file within the repository specified by the

>   [repository](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#repository) entry.  In this case the filapath for the file containing the support information will be 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  [repository](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#repository) entry.  In this case the filepath for the file containing the support information will be 
```

  `./package-support.json`

> * a string: a relative path, starting with ./, that points to a file within the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* a string: a relative path, starting with `./`, that points to a file within the
```

>   repository specified in the [repository](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#repository)

Reviewer 2: (it'd be nicer to review if these weren't hard-wrapped)

  entry which contains the canonical support information. 
* object, with repository key matching the schema for the existing
  [repository](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#repository) entry, and optional

>   path field that comnplies with the format described above under `a string`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  path field that complies with the format described above under `a string`
```

>   path field that comnplies with the format described above under `a string`

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  `path` field that complies with the format described above under `a string`
```

These options allow the support information to be provided through a file:

* in the root of the repository for the package
* in a location other than the root in the repository for the package
* in a different repository from the package itself

and enable the following use cases:

> 1.common case: "support": true with an associated package-support.json file in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. common case: `"support": true` with an associated `package-support.json` file in the
```

  package repo at the top level

> 2.much less common case: an alternate file path within the package’s repo,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. much less common case: an alternate file path within the package’s repo,
```

>   such as "support": "./path/to/support.json"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  such as `"support": "./path/to/support.json"`
```

> 3.much much rarer case: sharing the same support data across multiple repos.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. much much rarer case: sharing the same support data across multiple repos.
```

  Examples might be

>   * ”support”: { “repository”: { “type”: “git”, “url”: “node/.github” }, “path”: “support.json” }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * `"support": { "repository": { "type": "git", "url": "node/.github" }, "path": "support.json" }`
```

Reviewer 5: Is this even a valid `url` for the `repository` field?

>   * ”support”: { “repository”: { “type”: “git”, “url”: “node/.github” } }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * `"support": { "repository": { "type": "git", "url": "node/.github" } }`
```

>   * ”support”: { “repository”: { “type”: “git”, “url”: “node/.github”, “directory”: “packages” } }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * `"support": { "repository": { "type": "git", "url": "node/.github" }, "directory": "packages" }`
```

Reviewer 5: @ljharb - isn't `directory` a part of the `repository` spec? Presumably for monorepos? It's definitely not specified here...

Reviewer 2: oh oops, misplaced curly. fixed.

> In all of these cases package-support.json(or your alternative filename) should be included in your files

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In all of these cases `package-support.json` (or your alternative filename) should be included in your `files`
```

> array, or .npmignore configured to avoid excluding it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
array, or `.npmignore` configured to avoid excluding it.
```

> The rational for deliverying the canonical version of the support info through a file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The rationale for deliverying the canonical version of the support info through a file
```

> The rationale for deliverying the canonical version of the support info through a file

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The rationale for delivering the canonical version of the support info through a file
```

> within a repository (and ideally the package's repository) is that it maximizes the likelyhood

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
within a repository (and ideally the package's repository) is that it maximizes the likelihood
```

that every published package contains a copy of the support information that was
current at the time of the publish. Further, it does this in the most common cases without
requiring any special tooling or action from the maintainer.

> In the least common case where the support information is not within the same repository,

Reviewer 5: Just occurred to me that it might not be entirely correct to assume we know which cases will become more/less common? Things sometimes take off and go start a life of their own...

Reviewer 2: I think we can know it for now, and evolve the docs later.

Support info will rarely span multiple packages because even *having* multiple packages is provably rare.

Reviewer: @ljharb how so? There are orgs like babel, pino, express, koa, browserify, level, prebuild, unified, electron, where I doubt the maintainers will want to maintain support info per repo.

Author: Maybe we can change the wording to simply say that the cases or ordered by how common they are are and remove the wording around how much less common one is than the other?

Reviewer 2: @vweevers if there were 1000 of those orgs it would still be the rarest case. The number of single-package authors far outweighs the number of multiple-package authors.

Reviewer: Does that hold true if you factor in popularity and whether a package receives continued maintenance at all? How many packages are publish-once-and-forget? Which begs the question, why would these have support info at all.

I believe the ecosystem thrived not because of its many authors, but thanks to only a handful of people willing to maintain (and provide support for) multiple packages. Aren't these also the people most likely to adopt the support info?

Reviewer 2: That's a good question; but "common" for "packages with support info" is not determined by the number of people downloading the packages.

Yes, that's true - but I would never want one source of truth for all 200 of my packages; I'll always want a separate file in each separate package's separate repo; I suspect that will be the case for many multi-package authors.

Reviewer: Can we agree that being inclusive is more important than stating how common a case is? It gets wordy. The sections of the document can still be ordered most common case first.

Reviewer 2: I think it's important to *be* exclusive here - I think we should push people towards the common case, since a file per package, by default, meets the most use cases.

Reviewer: The document does a good job of describing pros and cons, which is a much better way (i.e. with arguments) to push people in the right direction. If that's even necessary. You have to trust the reader a little bit. If the less common cases weren't valid, they would not be listed here.

Author: Updated to just use most common, less common and least common.

we recommend that a non-canonical copy of the support information be copied into the package at the

> same relative path as the external repository when publishing. We intend to work on tooling to simplify this 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
same relative path as the external repository when publishing. We intend to work on tooling (including npm client) to simplify this 
```

process including validation of the path and content of the support information as well as the

> required coping for the least common case.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
required copying for the least common case.
```

Another benefit of delivering the support information from a repository is that existing

> repositories (github, github, bitbucket, etc.) provide a higher level of trust than

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
repositories (GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, etc.) provide a higher level of trust than
```

an unconstrained URL and tooling which pulls and processes the support information
can optionally limit where it will pull support information (along with the allowable
protocols like git, svn etc.) to a trusted set of repositories, increasing the
safety of running tools processing the support information.

The end result of this approach is that by default, each publish will contain a snapshot
of the support data, but the true source of truth is always a file within the package’s
repository (or within an external repository). This supports offline and
“no external internet” use cases as best as can be achieved.

> In the future, we hope that the developer experience could be further inproved

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In the future, we hope that the developer experience could be further improved
```

> through itegration with the npm client. For validation could be integrated into

Reviewer 5: Should we open a draft RFC (in both - yarn and npm - possibly other managers?) so that we can link to it?

Author: That sounds reasonable to me, although I don't think we need to block this PR on that. We can add the links once we open the issues.

> npm publish, and this information could be surfaced on npmjs.com, and/or the

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
`npm publish`, and this information could be surfaced on npmjs.com, and/or the
```

> information could be inlined into the packument so that npm view $package

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
information could be inlined into the packument so that `npm view $package`
```

> information could be inlined into the packument so that `npm view $package`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
information could be inlined into the package so that `npm view $package`
```

Reviewer 5: This is not a typo - packument is a sort of an extended package.json with additional data from the registry.

> ## Support information

Reviewer 5: This section still says that you need to include support information in the `package.json` - that's no longer an option or is it? If so - then probably the section above needs to be clarified to explicitly state that it is ok to have an object with support details directly, if not - the two paragraphs below probably need some editing.

Author: Thanks good catch, I had taken a quick look but had to head onto the plane and wanted to get something submitted.  Will update that.

Author: @dominykas fixed.
